OBSDOCS-1749: Add section about uiplugin in installing logging (#92388)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in-cli.adoc

> :_newdoc-version: 2.18.4

Reviewer: Make sure that this module file contains the required metadata, per the OCP doc guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#module-file-metadata

:_template-generated: 2025-04-18
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in-cli_{context}"]

> = Installing the Logging UI plug-in by using the CLI

Reviewer: Supplementary Style Guide: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#plug-in
```suggestion
= Installing the Logging UI plugin by using the CLI
```

> Install the Logging UI plug-in by using the comman-line interfatce (CLI) to visualize logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the Logging UI plugin by using the command-line interface (CLI) so that you can visualize logs.
```

 
.Prerequisites
* You have administrator permissions.
* You installed the {oc-first}.
* You installed and configured {loki-op}.

.Procedure
. Install the {coo-full}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/cluster_observability_operator/installing-cluster-observability-operators[Cluster Observability Operator].

. Create a `UIPlugin` custom resource (CR):
+
.Example `UIPlugin` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: UIPlugin
metadata:
  name: logging  # <1>
spec:
  type: Logging  # <2>
  logging:
    lokiStack:
      name: logging-loki  # <3>
----
<1> Set `name` to `logging`.
<2> Set `type` to `Logging`.
<3> `name` must match the name of your LokiStack instance. 
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this line. We don't support lokistack in the other namespace now. That may be enable in feature.

Reviewer 3: I know there was a customer case that required us to add the namespace. But in regards to support I'm not I'll check with @xperimental during the daily today

Reviewer 2: No idea if there is limitation to deploy the logging in the other namespace. let me confirm this.

Reviewer 2: /lgtm

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/logging-6.2/6x-cluster-logging-deploying-6.2.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-04-18
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="installing-the-logging-ui-plugin-cli_{context}"]
= Installing the Logging UI plugin by using the CLI

Install the Logging UI plugin by using the command-line interface (CLI) so that you can visualize logs.
 
.Prerequisites
* You have administrator permissions.
* You installed the {oc-first}.
* You installed and configured {loki-op}.

.Procedure

> . Install the {coo-full}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/cluster_observability_operator/installing-cluster-observability-operators[Installing the Cluster Observability Operator].

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't this be an xref?

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-04-18
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in-cli_{context}"]
= Installing the Logging UI plug-in by using the CLI

Install the Logging UI plug-in by using the comman-line interfatce (CLI) to visualize logs.
 
.Prerequisites
* You have administrator permissions.
* You installed the {oc-first}.
* You installed and configured {loki-op}.

> * You have created the `openshift-logging` namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

.Procedure
. Install the {coo-full}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/cluster_observability_operator/installing-cluster-observability-operators[Cluster Observability Operator].

. Create a `UIPlugin` custom resource (CR):
+
.Example `UIPlugin` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: UIPlugin
metadata:
  name: logging  # <1>
spec:
  type: Logging  # <2>
  logging:
    lokiStack:
      name: logging-loki  # <3>
----
<1> Set `name` to `logging`.
<2> Set `type` to `Logging`.
<3> `name` must match the name of your LokiStack instance. 
+
[NOTE]
====
If you did not install LokiStack in the `openshift-logging` namespace, set the LokiStack namespace under the `lokiStack` configuration. 
====

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

. Apply the `UIPlugin` CR object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

.Verification

> * Verify the installation by running the following command:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc get pods -n openshift-logging
> ----
> +
> .Example output
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc get pods -n openshift-logging
> NAME                                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
> cluster-logging-operator-56764d8c76-7m9kg          1/1     Running   0          19m
> logging-loki-compactor-0                           1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-distributor-657647b49b-2hxwl          1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-distributor-657647b49b-qdnpf          1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-gateway-79c497c9-69mqs                2/2     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-gateway-79c497c9-hd9w5                2/2     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-index-gateway-0                       1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-index-gateway-1                       1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-ingester-0                            1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-ingester-1                            1/1     Running   0         9m38s
> logging-loki-querier-59c966d69c-ggjlg              1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-querier-59c966d69c-n6c2g              1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-query-frontend-bc86757-8qzwd          1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-query-frontend-bc86757-kswxk          1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-ruler-0                               1/1     Running   0          10m
> logging-loki-ruler-1                               1/1     Running   0          10m
> 
> ----
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Access the OpenShift Container Platform web console and refresh the page if a pop-up message instructs you to do so. 
. Navigate to the Observe → Logs panel where you can run LogQL queries. You can also query Logs for individual pods from the pods view *Aggregated Logs* tab.
```

Author: done
